beautiful neat arts day one of Oregon's
premier clam digging and crabbing bays
the crabbing in the winter can be
phenomenal clam diggings phenomenal all
year long
yet razor clams out there towards the
end of the spit all species of bait
clams
including the fabled gooey duck clam are
taken in this Bay there at the filmic
library there's Dave and sandy Randleman
and bunch of wonderful people
I'm gonna get y'all on video so if any
of your wanted you can just cover your
face and you know I guess I guess what's
his name whitey Bulger's in jail now so
yeah well anyway I want to welcome you
all I sure appreciate you coming we're
gonna learn a little bit about digging
clams and a lot of times I learned a lot
from some of you have done dug clams in
a different different fashion or have
different methods for cleaning them or
so it's a learning experience that goes
of both ways
let me let me turn welcome good morning
young man you're ready to go I see
what's your name Greg nice to meet you
I'm bill you bet boys then ah and your
I'm your dad yeah I think this is just
terrific you know has it
yeah okay
moms moms are allowed to go clam dig
into oh that's great you were saying you
know a trick if you see like bubbles or
if there's holes bubbling or holes
flooding you should dig there to see if
there's clams because pretty much clams
do that yes they do and they squirt
water all over the place okay oh boy
yeah that's wonderful yep you boys
behave yourself okay yeah yeah you're
gonna have a wonderful time I promise
yeah here we go this is all the good
folks that decided to sacrifice a day
out on the tidal flats digging clams
we're going to have a great time soon as
the Randleman is arrived and they're
here but I don't know where Dave has a
problem finding a place to park
oh yes he's our sweetie
she finally calmed down I never forget a
mushroom princess she's out here to dig
clams I just terrific now that I've
thoroughly embarrassed her yes yes they
are and your mugs nice to meet you you
bet yeah well I hope so
you know oh yeah of course
yeah well yeah keep digging don't give
up try not to crush it there we are the
main body of participants getting
lessons on let's see their necks Martha
Washington I don't know hard to say yeah
hand it over
let's have a look-see yes you can
that's a gaper clam okay that's fine so
that's a gay fur 12:00 and then the then
you're allowed with it 12 within the
limit of 20 no for the 420 you're
allowed 12 Gator clamps I suggest you
stop at 11 and then fill out the rest of
your limit with butter clams and then if
you don't encounter a-a-another gaper
clan go back and dig your gecko this is
a steamer clown
actually this is a oh no no fine
fine lines that is a I think it's a
Manila clam I'm not sure you know I
could be wrong it would be the first one
yes no okay those are all butter clams
those are all up here towards your 20
and they're awful tasty that I would
make turn those and his steamers
absolutely the little ones
I'll show you how to dig the big ones
and I've got a request from a young man
here that wants to dig a clam
here we are with with Dave Randleman
you've seen his before and he's got a
limit of baked clams but what he doesn't
know as among his limit is the sand clan
that's am Acoma which is a class of
clams that were allowed 36 of a separate
limit from the other baked clams so he
has 19 in his bag there he has a fine
and fine large specimens of cockles part
cockles and the reason they call him
heart cockles because they are
heart-shaped and some decent-size caper
clams which he had to work to get decent
size yes he did for this area here and
you gonna go dig your 13 your 13th here
no I'm done for the day I'm not I don't
blame you yeah